                    CONSUMER IOT
Efficiency, Connectivity, and Bliss


WHAT IS CIOT?
 CloT is short for "Consumer Internet of Things", CloT is essentially IoT sensors, hardware, and software used for consumer-oriented purposes that make consumers' lives easier and simpler. CloT is an application of lot where a consumer personally uses an interconnected system of physical and digital objects. These interconnected smart devices are given unique identifiers (UIDs) to recognise and access them for various purposes.

 CloT covers all the user's networks around their personal 
and home devices. These devices are equipped with various 
wireless technologies and microcontrollers that make it 
simpler to share consumer data without any individual's 
direct intervention with each other or the computer.

These devices use edge computing technologies and are 
also integrated with standards and protocols that offer 
security performance and reliability. As a result, it 
saves power and improves scalability by crunching data 
instantaneously.


HOW DOES CIOT WORK?
 CloT works very similarly to regular IoT. Various 
sensors collect information, and this data needs to 
be sent to the cloud for processing. But for the 
sensors to communicate or send data to the cloud, 
they need a protocol, AKA connectivity. It is also 
this connection that lets the other devices communicate 
with each other and work coherently.

Once we have the connection, the sensors send the 
analysing data to the cloud for processing this data 
into digital form. Why a digital form? The data needs 
to be converted to digital form so that machines can 
understand and perform tasks based on it.

The final stage or component of the working of loT is 
the UI, where the user gets to control set automation 
or schedules, where a pre-programmed task is triggered 
when all the parameters are met. This UI is mainly an app.
However, UI can also be used to show the user hard number 
in the form of charts.

If you want to know more or get an even more detailed 
understanding of how lot works, you can read my article 
on the working of loT, where I have explained all four 
components that make up an IoT ecosystem in detail.


WHAT ARE CIOT DEVICES? 
CloT devices are being integrated into our daily 
routine as consumers benefit from lot systems in 
many ways. These devices are increasing efficiency 
and ease of use with fast-growing computing capabilities. 

CloT optimises data and also enables machine-to-machine
communications as these devices use edge computing technologies.
These devices have built-in sensors, Bluetooth, RFID, NFC, GPS, 
and an internet connection. 

The employed IoT devices cover the interconnected mechanical 
and digital systems and can collect and share data with the 
help of sensors. We also have lot systems or software that 
help you manage all of your consumer loT apps and devices.


TYPES OF CIOT
Consumer loT is classified into two types, they are: 

1.Personal loT: 
- IoT devices used for personal use, such as watches 
and phones, come under the personal category of consumer loT. 
These devices include smart watches, wearables, smartphones, etc. 

Let us look at some more examples:
a.Smart Watch: Apple Watch, Fitbit.
b.Battery power: Donor Cable bracelets by NAR Mobile.
c.Hearable: AirPods, Google Pixel Buds.
d.Smar galssest: Dropcam from Google, Vuzix Smart Glasses.
e.Smart clothing: Ralph Lauren smart t-shirt, Arrow Smart Shirt.


2.Smart Home IoT:
- It includes home appliances operating under an IoT ecosystem. 
The devices in a smart home have access to the internet, sense 
the environment around them and retrieve data from devices simultaneously. 
Some examples of smart home IoT include:

a.Voice Assistance: Siri, Alexa, Google Assistant, Bixby, Cortana.
b.Lighting fixtures: Philips Hue Smart Bulbs, LIFX, L8 SmartLight
c.Family Entertainment: Keepon social robot, Kuri home robot.
d.Security: Nortek Security, Bitdefender BOX, ring doorbell.
e.Smart Energy Savings: Ambi Climate, Neurio, iDevices Switch
f.Smart Kitchen Gadgets: iGrill Smart Grill, Samsung Family Hub.


THE FUTURE OF CIOT 
Millions of companies are trying to develop new ideas 
and devices with the growing demand for IoT devices in 
the consumer sector. There is so much demand for CloT 
that the market is estimated to reach USD 153.80 Billion 
by 2026.
It is why multiple companies pair IoT with various other 
technologies like big data, machine learning, 5G, deep learning 
cloud, and edge computing. In short, the ongoing competition is 
fierce.Customer trends inspire the trends of CloT as the consumer 
sets an example with every step because of its extensive usage and 
capabilities. As a result, the CloT market is widely popular 
in the following domains.

a.Asset tracking
b.Games and Entertainment
c.Health monitoring
d.Home security 
e.Parental tracking 
f.Quick Panic Buttons

Since we are on the topic of domains and applications of CloT, 
we might as well look into it.

WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CIOT AND IIOT? 
Now, this is a worthy question! IIoT (Industrial Internet of 
Things) and CloT (Consumer Internet Of Things)are both 
applications of loT. Again the technology they share is very 
similar to regular IoT. The only difference between them is 
the domain and use case scenarios they are used in. As we 
discussed above, CloT is inclined toward consumer lifestyle.
But lloT, on the other hand, is used solely in the industrial 
sector, connecting machines and devices in such industries as 
oil and gas, utilities, and manufacturing. Moreover, IIoT 
primarily focuses on improving efficiency and health or safety, 
in contrast to the user-centric nature of loT applications.


SUMMARY 
As you have seen, CloT is simply an application of IoT that is 
consumer-oriented and makes the lives of consumers easier and 
simpler. You have now learned what CloT is, how it works, CloT 
devices, its types, applications of CloT, and the future and 
market of loT. We finally concluded by discussing the difference 
between IoT, CIoT, and lloT.
